Detection of the relationship between parameters
Verification of correlation among the prediction parameters
by using MATLAB correlation matrix. In statistics, the
correlation coefficient r measures the strength and direction of
a linear relationship between two variables on a scatter plot.
The value of r is between +1 and –1. To interpret its value, see
which of the following values your correlation r as following:
TABLE I. R VALUE AND I NTERPRETATION
Figure 4. Correlation Matrix of Parameters (1/2)
The parameters used in building forecasting model are date,
weekday, Mean temperature and Relative Humidity. The
correlation matrix of forecasting parameters is shown in the
Figure 4.
The above correlation matrix tells that only weak positive
or negative correlation occurs among the 4 forecasting
parameters. The linear relationship among 4 parameters is from
-0.10 to 0.17, which is a small range of correlation coefficient r.
From the correlation analysis, forecasting parameters including
date, weekday, mean temperature and relative humidity are
proved that they are linear independence and suitable to be the
input parameters of model building simultaneously.
Figure 5. Correlation Matrix of Parameter (2/2)
C. Model definition and developing (Network Architecture
Design)
Neural Network is applied to forecast the daily number of
customers by input time information and weather condition,
including date, weekday, mean temperature and relative
humidity.
To optimal the performance of prediction model, there are
some important parameters should be considered and adjusted.
Algorithm type, number of neurons, number of hidden layers.
Figure 6. Data-Driven Framework for Improving Decision-Making Process
The above diagram is an interpretative illustration of the
neural network model being concreted and how it fits into the
overall forecasting process of matching inputs(4 parameters) to
output (daily number of customers). The parameters was
preprocessed with normalization, constant row removing and
correlation analysis. After preprocessing, the inputs were feed
into the neural network model. Weight and bias are two
important supportive factors to neural network model. The
lines between each inputs and each of the neurons(N) in hidden
layer have different weights. Bias layer (B) is also designed to
optimal the neural network model.
r value Interpretation
1 Perfect linear relationship
0 to 1
The two variables tend to have positive linear
relationship.
0 The two variables do not vary at all
-1 to 0
The two variables tend to have negative linear
relationship.
-1 Perfect negative or inverse linear relationship.
202
Feed-forward Backpropagation Network is used to build
our forecasting model. The weight and bias was iteratively
adjusted by the neural network until the matching of inputs and
the given output of customers. Backpropagation is applied in
attempt to minimize the loss function.
Algorithm
Training function
MATLAB has provided many neural network training
function, the most common three training function are used in
our model building. Training functions used in our research are
Trainlm (Levenberg-Marquardt), Trainbfg (BFGS Quasi-
Newton), Trainscg (Scale Conjugate Gradient) which are the
built-in training functions in MATLAB.
Levenberg-Marquardt produces an output which it
compares to the target output, then systematically backtracks
and alters the weight until the network’s mean squared error is
minimized (supervised learning)-fast and efficient and suitable
for most networks.
Training is often the fastest back propagation algorithm in
the toolbox, and is highly recommended as a first-choice
supervised algorithm, although it does require more memory
than other algorithms. This algorithm generally converges in
fewer iterations but it requires more computation in iterations
and more storage than the conjugate gradient methods. It is the
most common training algorithm used in research of neural
network.
Three training algorithms applied and tested in our model
building, Levenberg-Marquardt optimization always perform
better than BFGS Quasi-Newton and Scale Conjugate Gradient.
TABLE II. TRAINING ALGORITHMS
??????
????????
????????
?????????
???????
????????? ??????
????????
????????
?????????
???????
????????? ??????
????????
????????
?????????
???????
?????????
? ??????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ???????
? ??????? ? ?????? ? ???????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ???????
? ??????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ???????
? ??????? ? ?????? ? ???????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ???????
? ??????? ? ?????? ? ???????? ? ??????? ? ???????? ? ???????
? ??????? ?? ?????? ? ???????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ???????
? ??????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ??????
? ??????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ???????
? ??????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ??????? ? ???????? ?? ???????
?? ??????? ?? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ???????
?? ??????? ?? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ???????
Transfer function
Feedforward networks often have one or more hidden
layers of sigmoid neurons followed by an output layer of linear
neurons. Multiple layers of neurons with nonlinear transfer
functions allow the network to learn nonlinear and linear
relationships between input and output vectors. \
Figure 7. Data-Driven Framework for Improving Decision-Making Process
The hyperbolic tangent sigmoid function and pure linear
function constrain the output values between -1 and 1. On the
other hand, the logistic sigmoid produces the output values into
the range 0 to 1.
To learn the complex relationships (linear and nonlinear) in
our model, the transfer functions applied in hidden layers and
output layer are Tangent Sigmoid and Pure linear respectively.
Number of Hidden Layers (1)
Without any hidden layers, the network can only learn the
linear relationships among the inputs. Most practical problems
can be represented by one hidden layer, and there is no
theoretical reason why any more than two hidden layers would
be needed.
In this research, we just apply one hidden layers to the
neural network model. The best result were achieved with
correlation coefficient of 0.85 and relative root mean square
error of 5.2%. From the result, 1 hidden layer was adequate to
forecast the output.
Number of Neurons
The artificial neural network structure with inputs, 1 hidden
layer with 5 to 15 neurons and 1 output layer was established.
Under fitting will occur if not enough neurons are used and
over fitting will occur if too many neurons are used. Forward
and backward trial selection of the number of neurons is an
acceptable way of choosing the optimal network size.
The parameters setting used in forecasting model building
are shown in the following table:
TABLE III. P ARAMETERS S ETTING AND A LTERNATIVE
Parameters Setting Alternative
Non-constant
Training functions
Trainlm (Levenberg-Marquardt)
Trainbfg (Quasi-Newton)
Trainscg (Scale Conjugate Gradient)
Number of neurons
in hidden layers
5 to 15
Division of Data (Ratio)
(70:15:15),(80:10:10)
Constant
Network Type Feedforward Backpropagation Network
Number of hidden layers 1
Learning rate 0.3
Validation Times 6
Division of Data (Method) Random-dividerand
The forecasting neural network structure was built and
shown in the following graph.
203
Figure 8. Data-Driven Framework for Improving Decision-Making Process
The best Artificial Neural Network among all of them
would be assessed with the performance index. The results are
obtained and can be analyzed through the plot functions in
MATLAB:
? Plot perform
? Plot trainstate
? Plot errhist
? Plot regression
? Plot fit
The best Neural Network with overall R of 84.2% is
compiled into MATLAB function. Using this best model
function, we developed Graphical User Interface (GUI) which
help pharmacy making decision with this simple tool.
VI. R ESULTS AND D ISCUSSION
Following the Deep Learning framework the prediction
model was executed, as shown in the results section. Such
model is comes as the product of many trial executed by
considering several weather parameters including precipitation,
relative humidity, temperature, raining hours, sunshine hours,
wind speed, standard pressure, all this to come up with a
customer prediction model as accurate as possible.
In order to try several possibilities we proceeded to build
two different models, the first one considering 5 parameters
(weekdays, date, mean temperature, precipitation hours,
sunshine), and the second one considering 4 parameters
(weekdays, date, humidity, mean temperature).
It was important to check the forecasting model applying
different variables, and for this case to then choose the more
accurate prediction model. In this research both models showed
similar levels of accuracy, however the second type of model
was chosen due to the fact that the paremeters used to build it
present a higher accessibility, allowing the user to be able to
effectively use to model.
TABLE IV. M ODEL P ERFORMANCE T ABLE
Data Set R MAPE MAE MSE
Training
Data
0.915 3.34% 6.54 94.94
Testing
Data
0.823 8.55% 16.81 495.31
Validation
Data
0.791 12.41% 20.17 575.11
Overall 0.842 5.157% 10.03 223.52
Based on the results the route taken by this research follow
the model based on the 4 parameters. Now the final prediction
model selected resulted from the several trials and the end
chosing the best model with the higher overall accuracy of
84.2%. Joined to this information the MAPE presented a
overall percentage of 5.157 %, MAE a value of 10.3 and the
MSE an overall value of 223.52. The values obtained, that
describe our “best model” positioned it as the best one among
the several models product of our trial and testing process.
Figure 9. Error Distribution Graph
Following the description of the prediction model, checking
the different error distributions resulted crucial to present an
accurate model. With this objective been clear the error
distribution, absolute error distribution and absolute percent
error distribution where analyzed and as is shown in Figure 10
the different distributions support the veracity of the
forecasting model.
Figure 10. Actual and Forecasted Customer Flow Comparison (Orange Line:
Furcated Information; Blue Line: Actual Information)
To confirm the accuracy of the selected model a
comparison was executed between the forecasted information
provided by the model and the actual information from the
204
pharmacy which confirmed the accuracy of our model, as
shown in Figure 11. Such comparison results crucial for the
development of the research were a real confirmation of the
possibility of using weather parameters to outcast customer
flow. This comparison is the confirmation that the research was
successful in this aspect.
UX is the concept intended to explore a person’s experience,
emotion, intuition and connection when interacting with a
product in several situations and screenplay. Following this
concept it was required that the prediction model was translated
into an interface that could allow a user make use of it. This is
how the Graphical User Interface came up as a tool that made
accessible for users to utilize the customer prediction model
that was built.
Figure 11. Pharmacy Customer Forecasting Graphical User Interface
Separated from the deep learning and modeling building
section, a sales analysis was performed to find information that
could represent an important tool for the pharmacy to have a
better understanding of how the different parameters involved
in a transaction affect the way that purchases occur.
VII. C ONCLUSION , C ONTRIBUTION AND F UTURE P LANNING
Due to the high competitively among different types of
fields in the market, this trends are forcing them to constantly
improve their strategy to enhance their service quality to
preserve and attract more customer to their business. To ensure
their competitive advantage among the others, methods,
analysis, and other factor were use in their system to increase
their productivity. While this research are focused on the
accuracy of the predicting model that was built based on data
extracted from the POS and weather data.
This research represents a window for improvements in the
decision making process executed by the management body,
having now access to information that enhances the process.
Deep Learning played a fundamental role been crucial in
the building of the customer prediction model through the
Artificial Neural Network based on weather parameters, seen
that these can, indeed, be used to make customer flow
predictions.
The information obtained through the research benefits the
administrative policies bases, in aspects such as, allocations of
resources (employees, products, etc.), good use of supplies,
enhancement of competitiveness in general. Enhancement of
service quality translated into customer satisfaction.
Although this research is developed oriented towards a
pharmacy, it is expected for it to be applicable on different
retailing business, especially in the service industry including
restaurants, and supermarkets, among others. The research sets
the bases in an administrative business matter to continue
developing different models for them to provide more accurate
actual and future information that can enlighten the managers,
generally speaking. The next step in our research is to
implement other factors that might affect the customers
quantity, and apply the Rolling prediction method to forecast
further information that can be useful for the pharmacy.
A CKNOWLEDGMENT
This research is supported by National Science Council
(NSC 105-2410-H-468-002-MY2, NSC102-2632-E-468-001-
MY3)
